All right let's do this let's kick off the plan of attack for this case study number two.
Minimizing the energy consumption in a server.
And we're going to start by defining the environment which as for any AI we build is a process and three
steps.
First defining the state second define the actions and third defining the reward.
All right so let's do this and let's start with the states.
So what I'm going to be the states for are AI.
Well first of all I remind that the states are actually going to be the input of your artificial intelligence.
And as you understood this time the artificial intelligence will be an artificial brain you know an
artificial neural network and this artificial neural network will take some input and these inputs are
exactly the states that we're about to define.
So let's see where I'm going to be these inputs.
Well the input state is t at time t you know at a specific minute is composed of the following three
elements.
First the temperature of the server at time t.
And of course this will be the temperature when we have an AI when we have our AI regulating the temperature
of the server.
Then a second element which will be the number of users in the server at a specific time the number
of active users you know using the server to do whatever they want on their machine.
And third the rate of data transmission in the server at time t.
And so these three elements will be inside a vector.
A vector of three elements which will be the input state that is the input vector of this artificial
brain that will be our AI.
As you can see the input state will be an input vector of these three elements and our future AI.
I will take this vector as input and will return the action to play at each time T after the signals
pass inside the two fully connected letters.
All right so that's for the states.
Breezy just a vector of the three elements.
Now let's define the actions.
So this time we're going to have five actions.
And of course these actions will correspond to some certain temperature changes that the AI will apply
onto the server to regulate its temperature.
So indeed we just need to read here the actions are simply the temperature changes that AI can cause
inside a server in order to heat it up or cool it down.
And of course we are dealing with discrete actions.
So what we consider is five possible temperature changes from minus three degrees to plus three degrees.
And also considering minus 1.5 and plus 1.5 and so we end up with these five possible actions.
And it's important that we keep in mind the indexes of these actions because you know when we start
working with the neural network and applied predictions for the training world we will need to know
this mapping because we will of course give the indexes just as we did in the previous case with the
previous AI.
And so these indexes are index zero corresponds to the situation where it cools down the 7 by 3 degrees.
When the action is 1.
The AI cools down the server by 1.5 degrees when the action is too the AI does not transfer any heat
to the Saroo that is there is no temperature change then when the action is 3 the heats up the server
by 1.5 degrees and finally the final and fifth action when the action is for while the AI heats up the
server by three degrees.
All right.
So again very simple actions.
All clear to understand.
And so now we're ready to define what we want.
So you might have guessed how the words are defined.
Well of course since we want to compare the performance of our AI with the servers integrate including
system well at a specific time the reward will be of course the difference in energy between these two
systems.
So as you can see I'm saying that the reward at a specific time t is the energy spent at that specific
time when there is no AI minus the energy spent at a specific time when there is an area that is the
energy spent by the AI.
And that's because the energy spent by the server is integrated cooling system is exactly the energy
spent when there is no AI's so for notations implicity purposes we are noting that this way.
And remember that we will measure these two energies separately in two separate simulations but with
the same users reiterations and data fluctuations.
Because indeed we want to compare how the two systems do separately but on the same temperatures for
tuition's that isn't the same intrinsic temperatures for two of the server.
And then since Remember assumption to saying that the energy spent by system is exactly equal to the
absolute value of the temperature change that is Delta the cost onto the server.
Well we get that reward at a specific time t is the absolute value of the temperature change applied
to the Saroo when there is no AAE minus the absolute value of the temperature change cost onto this
or when we have any.
When the AI is activated and that simply the reward will have to get at each country because indeed
when doing reinforcement learning or deep reinforcement learning Well we have to get the reward at each
time T because of course the way the AI trains itself is by trial and error.
So the higher the reward the better the AI AI is doing and the lower is the reward the worst the AI
is doing all right and that's it we define the environment.
It was quite simple and easy.
And so now we are already ready to move on to the next step which is to understand the solution that
we're going to build.
And you're going to understand this with Kiril because in the next couple of tutorials you'll get his
intuition lectures and for more theory and more math details you can have a look at the book where indeed
we provide the theory in more detail.
In fact you'll get the full deep Q learning algorithm including experience replay.
So I'll leave you with curial for intuition and theory of declaring and I'll see you in part 3 for this
huge implementation in Python that will do all together from scratch and step by step.
Until then enjoy a.